# Systems of Colloidal Particles 

Ali Ehlen | 02/01/2021 | IDEAS FSS-Vis Final Project

Note: The data is not posted here but may be soon. 
____________________________________________________________________


This is a visualization of the results of many simulations of a system of colloidal particles. The system is composed of two types of particles, large and small, where the small particles are grafted with varying numbers of linkers, which are attracted to the large particles. The mixture's composition, or ratio of small to large particles, may also vary. Each simulation is started in a particular crystal structure and ends in a particle crystal structure (which may be different from the initial structure). The purpose of the visualization is to show the crystal structure into which colloidal particles assemble under different compositions, number of linkers/small particle, and tempeartures. The function is twofold: 
1. to help those of us working on the project to process and compare our data in order to better classify it and
2. once the data is cleaned, to  communicate properties of this data to others. 

There are two components of data being visualized. The first is a phase diagram. This shows, for different compositions, the resulting crystal structure of a system with different number of linkers/small particle and at different temperatures. There is a different phase diagram for each ratio of small to large particles, and these can be cycled through using the number toggle above the left-hand graph. Each point on the phase diagram can be hovered over to reveal specifics of the data point, including the crystal structure in which the simulation was initialized and the final crystal structure.

For more detail, each point on the phase diagram can be clicked, which will cause the pair correlation function (_g(r)_) to be plotted on the right-hand axes. This pair correlation function helps to reveal the crystal structure and is used to classify the crystal structures shown in the phase diagram. These can be zoomed in on, moved around, toggled on and off, and fully cleared and reset. Additionally, hovering over the points on the pair correlation function shows more detail of the simulation they come from, as well as the coordinates of the hovered point. This is important for being able to analyze the location and width of the peaks of this function.

Because of the degree of customization and interactivity needed, this project is implemented in `d3.js` and styled using `css`. The ability to hover over data points and see more specific information about the corresponding simulation was important, as well as the ability to plot pair correlation functions on the same axes and be able to zoom. All of this functionality enables to the user to quickly compare simulations, rather than needing to reload data, record points, ten reload other data (as was the case before developing this visualization). Many pieces of this were straightfoward to implement based on examples from the first week of FSS-Viz, and others were much more difficult (such as implementing zooming and panning).

Currently, we are using this as an interactive tool to help us analyze the phase diagram data (function #1). Because some crystal structures are unclassified, and because some similations are run with the same parameters but different starting conditions, we need to be able to compare pair correlation functions between simulations to determine which data is redundant and which data required closed analysis. Being able to plot together and directly compare the pair correlation functions has already enabled us to re-classify some crystals and understand where to extend or re-run simulations. Once we finish this round of classification, then we will be able to combine this data with other results from our simulations and have the visualization function more as a demonstration of our results (function #2). In that case, it will enable the user to quickly scrolling through different phase diagrams, as well as see the evolution of crystallinity and crystal structure as a function of temperature, number of linkers/small particle, and composition, by comparing pair correlation functions.
