# Laser Induced Plasma Micromachining

Laser-Induced Plasma Micromachining (LIPMM) has the ability to machine deeper features compared to direct laser ablation. In the LIPMM process, a workpiece is immersed on a dielectric (usually water) and a pulsed laser is focused just above the workpiece surface. If the laser pulse energy is greater than the breakdown threshold of the dielectric, plasma forms through the optical breakdown of the dielectric. When this laser-induced plasma comes in contact with the workpiece, material vaporizes. The temperature of the plasma is an important factor that determines the material removal rate.

This visualization project shows how the temperature within the plasma varies with time and distance from the center of the plasma. The data is extracted from Ahmed et.al. 2008 paper titled “Spectroscopic study of laser-induced plasma in aqueous media”. The paper studies the laser-induced plasma on the surface of ionic solutions of Ca++. Linear interpolation is used to create more data points at different times and distances. The evolution of plasma is a nonlinear process so the temperature on this visualization project is not to be used for scientific purposes.

The visualization is developed on WebGL which is a JavaScript API that can be used within a web browser for rendering interactive graphics. Most scientific papers only show the 2D plots of the variables. Interactive graphics provides another way to look at the data and can instigate some valuable insights. In this visualization, a user can see how the temperature varies over time and distance for a large portion of the plasma. Cramming an equivalent data in a single 2D plot would look very messy and can obscure some important trends.

The visualization has some sliders to change the time of the plasma evolution, size of the balls (which represents plasma constituent figuratively), and the opacity of the balls. There are also three sliders that show the cross-section of the plasma in x, y, or z-directions. Users can choose from 3 different color maps and use the mouse to drag the plasma to change the viewing angle. The users can also zoom in and out of the plasma. A plot of temperature as a function of time is also included for different distances (in microns) from the plasma.
