# Supernova Explorer

David Matthews September 18 2020

[A live version is available here.](https://ageller.github.io/IDEAS_FSS-Vis/FinalStudentProjects/2020summer/DavidMatthews/)

I am fascinated by supernovae and other explosive astronomical transients, but I am very new to the field. I would like to have a better understanding of the discovery landscape of the field, but simply reading papers is not enough for me; I would like to supplement literature with an interactive visual exploration of the subject. For these reasons, I was drawn to the topic and dataset used in the WebGL example of this course. In this project, data from the Open Supernova Catalog are plotted in 3D space with the color map representing their luminosities. These data were downloaded on Aug. 20, 2019 and converted to galactocentric cartesian coordinates in the Jupyter notebook ‘convertOpenSN.ipynb’ written by Aaron Geller. I wanted to build on this example, with a particular focus on visualizing different the types of supernovae.

I chose WebGL for 1) its aesthetic and smooth feel for an interactive 3D visualization and 2) my interest in practicing JavaScript. The main challenges for me were in understanding how the different scripts interact with each other (e.g. a change in ‘gui.js’ triggers ‘drawScene.js’ to be executed using parameters from ‘params.js’). My previous experience was only with basic Python, and in particular Jupyter notebooks, so this was a new way of thinking about software and code for me. Two specific challenge were 1) advancing my initial supernova type filter from a drop-down menu where only one type is shown at a time to a checkbox menu where any number of types can be toggled to be shown or hidden, and 2) creating separate geometries for the different supernova types so that different markers could be used for each.

To use this software, open a terminal window and navigate to the project folder ‘SNExplorer’ and type the command ‘python -m http.server’. This will launch the software locally, and it can be accessed by directing a browser to the URL ‘localhost:8000’. Three closed-folder menus are available when the visualization is initialized. The ‘SN Type’ folder contains checkbox filters for seven types of supernovae: Ia, Ib, Ic, Ib/c, IIb, IIn, and IIL. Each checkbox is accompanied by a marker drop-down menu with four choices (sphere, square, triangle, or star), as well as a slider for changing the respective marker size. These options allow the user to filter for their interests and distinguish multiple types for easy comparison. The ‘Color’ folder allows the user to set the color map representing the supernova luminosities, as well as set the dynamic range for this color map. The ‘Other’ folder contains options for size attenuation of the markers, the alpha test parameter for marker edges, and the time filter function we added in the original assignment to only show supernovae discovered before the input year. An excellent example of the insights I expect a user to gain from the visualization is in our observational bias of detecting different types of supernovae. By tinkering with the filters, markers, and sizes, it becomes visually clear how biased our discoveries of Type Ia supernovae are as compared to Type IIL, simply because they are brighter.
